This directory contains all the notebooks containing code. These are:  
1. `src/1-DAQ.ipynb`. This notebook contains the data analysis process to estimate the impact of wildfire smoke on Salina, Kansas. It involves reading the "USGS_Wildland_Fire_Combined_Dataset.json" GeoJSON dataset of wildfire occurrences, converting coordinates, calculating distances between Salina and wildfires, filtering relevant data, and performing checks. The output includes data frames with information on wildfire distances `intermediate_data/miles.csv`, fire attributes `intermediate_data/features.csv`, and an estimate of smoke impact `intermediate_data/filter.csv`.  
   
2.`src/2-Cleaning.ipynb`. This notebook estimates the impact of wildfire smoke on Salina. It involves loading and filtering data, calculating factors like Smoke Factor and Overlap Factor, and applying a formula to compute the final **Smoke Estimate**. The results are grouped by year and exported to a CSV file named `intermediate_data/smoke_est.csv`.
   
3. `src/3-AQI.ipynb`. This contains various data analysis and data retrieval tasks related to air quality and smoke estimates for Salina. It begins by loading and visualizing smoke estimate data. It then accesses the US EPA Air Quality System API to retrieve air quality monitoring information. You need to sign up to access this data, and this code block has been commented on and has a descriptor that will enable you to do the same. It is labeled "Uncomment this to sign up and get your username and APIKEY". The code computes monthly AQI estimates for the years 1963 to 2022, imputes missing AQI values, and calculates yearly averages. The final dataset combines smoke estimates and imputed AQI data, which is saved as `intermediate_data/pred_df.csv`.  
   
4. `src/4-Modelling.ipynb`. This contains the predictive modeling, time series analysis, and data visualization tasks for smoke and fire-related data. The predicted values for the next 25 years have been stored and printed from the list 'forecasted_values'. The results of the visualizations have been saved to the directory `../results/`. These have been further discussed in the HCDS Project Part 1 Writeup.pdf.  

5. `src/5-Data Cleaning.ipynb`. This notebook contains the data cleaning of the metrics chosen for Part 2 Analysis. These metrics are 1. Income and Industry data for Salina and 2. Unemployment and employment data for Salina. There are two resultant dataframes created in this - `intermediate_data/analysis_1.csv` and `intermediate_data/analysis_2.csv` - and these are both used to perform analysis wrt my Research Questions in 6-Questions.

6. `sec/6-Questions.ipynb`. This notebook contains the analysis that answers my research questions. The results of each question have been saved to the directory `../results/`. These have been further discussed in the final project report.